Work a little bit more on the hands.
We did quite a bit and the last video.
But there's still a little undefined at this point in time I'd like to give a little more detail to
them.
So I'm going to press Allt F to center up the tumble right around the knuckles here.
And also I'll go ahead and hide the rest of the character since we don't need all of that.
While we're working on the hands to do that I'll need to go over to sculpt mode first.
And we go now I should be able to press the H key and click and drag and hide those away.
I think I'll use the sculpt draw brush while I'm here to just define find the knuckles a little better
right here.
So
and then maybe smooth goes back just a hair I go.
I'll also want a little more definition to the knuckles on the top.
But first I think I'm going to define the pads on the other side of the fingers.
So let's come over here to this side.
Let's give a little more definition to the fleshy part at the base of each of the fingers.
And to do that I'll use once again the mask tool and maybe I'll just mask this area like this
something like this just to mask this out so we don't accidentally sculped on this and then we can come
back to something like the inflate brush maybe.
Let's try this and maybe we could inflate those up a little bit along that edge and that will beef that
up and give us maybe a nice crease there.
May be a bit too much but let's try that.
So yeah hopefully that will give us a little crease there at the edge of the fingers.
Now we can try that again with the pads up here so if I reduce the brush size here and go back to the
mask I'll clear it with him.
Let's see.
Let's just test on one of these for a second a test here on this part of the finger.
What I want to do is just try and define this pad right here.
So I'll take this and press control I need to invert the selection and then once again I'll come back
to the inflate brush and just lightly inflate that up.
So we've got a little bit of a pad to the finger there.
And I can also press control eye and then work on these here as well so now I can work on this pad while
that's masked out.
And this one down here as well let's take a look at that with I'll press him and clear that and you
can see we're getting a little bit more of the creases in the fingers.
And it's another example I think of the concept of pulling out rather than cutting it.
I think it's easier when you're modeling when you're extruding things when you're sculpting things.
And I mentioned this some videos ago but when you've got an object where you have things cut in like
these creases on the fingers try not to think about how can I cut in but try and think about how can
I pull out how can I extrude out or sculpt out to get those creases to get that indentation or cut in
or whatever it is you're doing.
So let's work on the other fingers here.
So I'm just going to try and do them all at the same time.
I feel like this before I begin though I feel like this finger is a little too long.
Let's try and use the grab brush on this and I'll come around here and let's just move this down here.
Here we go.
All right.
So let's work on the pads of these other fingers as well.
Go back to the mask tool and let's just mascon all of these.
So if this one is here I'll probably want the mask of this one to be up here and then down here and
down here so they kind of curve like this.
And this one may be here here and here.
Let's try that.
I'm just trying to get a sense of where these should go.
All right.
Let's try this so I'll press control on and then go back to the inflate brush and try and beef these
up just a bit.
And let's work on this one now.
I'm trying to get a nice rounded boulders to this.
So I'm having to smooth some back periodically here.
All right so this one here I'll start bringing this one up.
All right.
And then I'll work on this pinky here.
Same thing just going to use the inflate brush to bulge this out a bit.
And I'm also trying to make sure I get some bulge around the edges too so that we get those creases
when we do the other parts of the fingers.
All right so we have those.
And of course what we need to do is press control eye and invert the mask and then let's come in and
do the same thing for the rest of the fingers here.
Now I could come back and put a mask on this area down here.
Just so I don't accidentally ruin what I've done already down here.
I'm going to try and be careful we'll see if I can do it without masking that again.
But that's certainly a possibility.
We could do that.
And this really is one of those places where a pen and tablet is just absolutely necessary.
There are lots of options for buying tablets you can get them use you can usually get them for under
$100.
One place or another whether it be on eBay or used off of amazon.
But it really is very useful.
All right.
Press alt em and there we go.
Now we've got the pads of the fingers.
Sure we're going to need to do a little bit of smoothing and cleaning up but it's really a pretty effective
way of creating those indentations in the fingers.
Once again try not to think about cutting in so much as pulling out.
Now one more thing I wanted to mention here.
We've been modeling so far in an smoothed mode.
Now as we increase the subdivisions of course it smooths it a little more and more but if we go over
to object mode and go to the Tools tab and under shading if we click on smooth that'll smooth up the
model quite a bit.
So if you want to begin working in this more smooth mode as we work on more of the details you can do
that as well.
And then if you click flat that'll go back to the more faceted view of the polygons.
So on that I go ahead and turn that on.